---
title : 21
date : "2008-10-15T00:00:00+05:30"
tags : ["birthday", "blab", "song"]
draft : false
---

Yes, I've turned 21 today. I'd like to write a post today, but
this song (by Adam Sandler?) more or less conveys, how I feel.

I'd just like to thank everyone, who prays for me to grow up and
not just old.

**The Happy Birthday Song**<br />
<br />
Once a year we celebrate<br />
With stupid hats and plastic plates<br />
The fact that you were able to make<br />
Another trip around the sun<br />
<br />
And the whole clan gathers round<br />
And gifts and laughter do abound<br />
And we let out a joyful sound<br />
And sing that stupid song<br />
<br />
Happy birthday!<br />
Now you're one year older!<br />
Happy birthday!<br />
Your life still isn't over!<br />
Happy birthday!<br />
You did not accomplish much<br />
But you didn't die this year<br />
I guess that's good enough<br />
<br />
So let's drink to your fading health<br />
And hope you don't remind yourself<br />
The chance of finding fame and wealth<br />
Decrease with every year<br />
<br />
Does it feel like you're doing laps<br />
And eating food and taking naps<br />
And hoping that someday perhaps<br />
Your life will hold some cheer<br />
<br />
Happy birthday!<br />
What have you done that matters?<br />
Happy birthday!<br />
You're starting to get fatter<br />
Happy birthday!<br />
It's downhill from now on<br />
Try not to remind yourself<br />
Your best years are all gone<br />
<br />
If cryogenics were all free<br />
Then you could live like Walt Disney<br />
And live for all eternity<br />
Inside a block of ice<br />
<br />
But instead your time is set<br />
This is the only life you get<br />
And though it hasn't ended yet<br />
Sometimes you wish it might<br />
<br />
Happy birthday!<br />
You wish you had more money<br />
Happy birthday!<br />
Your life's so sad it's funny<br />
Happy birthday!<br />
How much more can you take?<br />
But your friends are hungry<br />
So just cut the stupid cake<br />
<br />
Happy birthday!<br />
Happy birthday!<br />
Happy birthday, dear...<br />
